
Q1 : Why should we hire you?

ANS : - I should be hired for this role because I have all that relevent skills set and capabilities to fit this position.
      - I've researched the company and can add value to its growth. My positive attitude, work ethics making me a committed and valuable asset to the company. 


Q2 : Why do you want to join this company?

ANS : TCS being one of the leading consultancy firm in the market and with quality working environment. Being in TCS will be an amazing opportunity to learn, grow 
      and explore and give the best of me, Also above all. TCS would be like an ocean of endless learning experience of the most latest technologies and practices.


Q3 : What do you know about this company?

ANS : - TCS stands for Tata Consultancy Services and it is founded in 1869 by Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata. It is a multi-national company providing IT services. 
        It provides software and consultancy services in different industries like Finance, Education, Insurance, Retail, Energy, Life Science, and Healthcare.


Q4 : What are your strength and weekness?

ANS : - I am disciplined, positive-thinker, honest, hard worker and always open to learn new things in life.
      - I am over-thinker and a bit emotional person.


Q5 : What motivates you at work?

ANS : Being a helpful and dependable team member motivates me.


Q6 : What is your biggest achivement till date?

ANS : - I got price/shield for employee of the month from my manager around 4 years ago. 


Q7 : How do you handle work pressure?

ANS : - I always use STAR formula under pressure which is Situation, Tasks, Action, Result.
      - I always keep calm myself under pressure and seek for an optimal solution.
      - Visualize the worst case scenario.
      - Open to take help from other team member or seniors.


Q8 : Have you ever worked in a leadership position?

ANS : Yes, I got a chance to lead/manage a project around 1 and half year ago. The project was of WHO organisation which was Document Management System.
      In that project, I have handled 2 people of team. One was junior developer of 3-4 years of experience and second was mid-level developer of 5-6 years of experience.
      I used to connect with the client which was US based and used to take requirement/task, than transfer or discusse those tasks/requirement with the developers acordingly.
      I have handled that project around 7-8 months. 


Q9 : What is your day to day roles and activities?

ANS : - On daily basis, I use to connect with client over MS Team chat for updating my task status. And use to connect with client once in a week with team meeting.
      - I majorly work on frontend related tasks everyday.
      - I use to work on HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Flexbox and Javascript technologies everyday.
      - On daily basis, I use Visual Studio 2022, VS Code editor, Trello for tasks management, Outlook, GIT and GitLab for project tasks push and pull request.    


Q10 : Can you explain gap in your resume?

ANS : I did not get placement from college. I had to search job from outside. It took around 10-11 months to get the job. This was the main reason. 


Q11 : Do you have any question? 

ANS : - What are the key areas, where i need to improve myself more?
      - If i got selected, on what type of project i will get a chance to work?